so obviously I'm at valve and they might
notice for the giant valve and Chad has
been kind enough to give me a tour of
the offices so start with this if I turn
this hard enough will I turn off
everybody's steam account it drains
sound so you can just do that no where
should where should we go next
well we're in the lobby first we have
our fish tank I'm going to call you
Gordon Freeman and you are going to be
interloper and you are going to be heavy
oh we have our heavy and the heavy
models we have our giant bottle of
fluffer dead wine which is empty and we
have a wide selection of crowbars
everywhere which as you got to see in
left 4 dead 2 with melee weapons not
only are they good for sci-fi guys but
they're also good to fend off zombies
it's true we've known yeah so over here
and so this is every game that you guys
have really ever worked on between these
two oh yeah you'll see portal you'll see
day of defeat day of defeat source and
also you'll see some things mixed in
here that people we've worked with
really closely like we're we've got Red
Orchestra and killing floor and and a
Jeep for reward we put that up there
high so the kids don't steal it everyone
steal it and at this station you just 7
some people send in some other cases
well actually that one we had someone do
and this is a community service and did
everything up here very nice we just let
it leave it playing some of our movies
here so if you guys got any awards
though you think it's baseball no I've
never seen any rewards I'm not sure if
we won any yet around the window not
many more crowbars
I love crowbars you guys are to actually
face if there's a zombie apocalypse
alright so can you tell me a little bit
about the guns well that's a grenade
launcher obviously from TFC actually not
tf2 so this was a community member
I had crafted these and sent these in
they're super cool
and and they're super happy I'm very
excited about the launch box what did
this launch was for the orange box since
we had three games in one box for
actually five we did the three major
titles so we had we have the episode two
in tf2 with the portal and this actually
is how the game went live on Steam so it
was actually connected actually put it
down where I was just connected to some
lights but you'd put it down put it down
and then Gabe's hit this button and the
depot became active I'm steaming you
download the orange box so here's
something fun planned for for left 4
dead 2
uh yeah every year we can't do something
a little bit goofy it's kind of odd
because whatever midnight launch which
means 9 p.m. our time which is nice
get to bed early you still get to watch
our game so be fun and if I press the
button oh I feel like it's gonna shut
off someone's lights or computer or
something fun like somewhere in the
building
just do a random person just the launch
button a B touch anything
alright we're entering the valve offices
hard at work here very serious business
in this wing this is our financial aid
interns do looks familiar
here's Zoids main machine remember might
remember soit from three wave
capture-the-flag
kind of spent way too many years playing
his games already and now we're getting
into a lot for that area here so what's
going on where we are now well we've the
big cork board where we would list
things we were working on originally
everyone's name and now towards the end
of the project we just lists the
different sections and make sure they're
not as you can see there's nothing in to
do and there's nothing in progress in
progress of everything in the duck we're
shipping a game alright what do we have
on this wall this is a bunch of concept
art by a German Bennett so we start
looking at areas like a swamps and
things we'll do some research start
drying up some pictures and these 50 or
so drawings are probably about a half a
day worth of his work and it's insanely
fast I don't maybe not half a day but
increasingly fast here you can see which
later comes in the pond tation house
from Swamp fever the NC areas in the
French Quarter other areas in swamp this
is really nice for all everyone working
in the project really gives you a feel
of what you're trying to pull off there
and what you're trying to do
and any one of these you could just
frame and have on your wall they're
gorgeous
oh this is all on eBay I refer all
didier this is my retirement fund I
refuse to believe that he can do that
that quickly these are incredible it's
insanely fast and great today actually
here are some areas actually ended up
not actually using some trailer parks
underneath freeways but really kind of
want to revisit that sometime this is
where the level design and level design
artists work we can't put everyone in
one room we're a little smashed in here
we're actually moving offices in a few
months it's a little bit more spacious
but for right now we all sit pretty
close we all get along pretty well as
you can see they're spending their
afternoons still playing some more you
just keep playing as you want to be able
to talk about our games with our
customers and play them as much as they
do so what are the guys in this room you
so that concept art that you saw on the
wall and you can see some of over here
during minute they these are the guys
that make it real a level designers will
first come in and actually put out the
track and put out the physical layout of
everything and then the level design
artists will come back through and make
it look like a real place so everyone
works together works the story looks
with everything all the way through is
that we have this kind of continuation
so what happens on this this happen this
is the different tech setups different
computer configurations as actually
Charlie Bergin back there one of the
guys helps run all the testing and all
the configurations
oh is this to break when we break it was
awesome sorry it's tough to be a you get
excited by coming up level of food here
in the break room and the best it's
important though it helps you get
through crunch time right yeah sure that
fixed yeah we'll go with that okay so
what goes on here this is the tf2 room
they also they're just taking a break to
help sell some love for dad they helped
us out with realism and all the vs.
stuff and so now here they're back in TF
working on an update and so what I want
for Christmas this room I don't know if
you can see but it has all of the swag
and the t-shirts and not just for left
for dead but you know counter-strike and
but everyone a little kind of strike
half-life half like two companions and
okay the big box is of course getting
geared up for the buffer tattoo I'm sure
wearing nice that is awesome and thank
you for showing us the
this is an action this isn't actually
where it all ships out of the order
online at the steam store they were much
more professional-looking store this is
a what heads this way we have all just
the kind of goofy stuff
like the combine which was in second
place in the spring league this year
very nice so your company softball team
is actually called the combine yes all
right thank you very much for showing me
around the offices thanks for coming out
always great to have g4 and I guess you
guys will have to work on another game
so we can come back up again I think we
can do that